---
layout: post
title: "$ clear"
id: 009
date: 2014-04-07
description: "Dialing back the cleverness to get back to the problem solving."
excerpt: "Dialing back the cleverness to get back to the problem solving. This is the end of my excuses, and the beginning of paying my dues. No more bullshit."
---

You don’t know me. And that’s fine, I’ve been hiding. I’ve been cowering in my room like a child; afraid to face the world. I’ve been wasting time with distractions and books and calling it work. It’s not. What good is collecting knowledge you don’t use? What good is living vicariously through your heroes?

## Stop Hitting Yourself

That’s right. I have no one to blame for my inaction but me. Though, honestly, I’m fed up with blame. I was scared, sure, but I’m also still here. As long as I am, this fear can be conquered. My actions were my own, but what I do now is also up to me.

And I choose to pick myself up, dust myself off, and get back to what matters. Not through theory, through practice. Getting my ass up every single day even if I don’t feel like it, planting in my chair, and doing the work. Real work. Work that builds up others instead of myself.

### Branded
All this time, I thought it would be easier to place a catchy name between me and what I do. Like I thought it made things more official or some shit. I never needed the sterile stench of professionalism. Never actually registered my so-called business.

Time spent reinventing myself was time I could have used to __be__ myself.

Heh, I have a lot of practice making portfolios, but I’ve never been comfortable with self-promotion.

You’d actually find me to be understated. I prefer to post useful things and leave it at that. They say you can’t let your work speak for you—that self-promotion is unavoidable—but I call bullshit. Your work can speak for you if you get __that damn good__. Even better would be getting to the point where I can share things to help others raise their game. You won’t find a brand here. Just me. Just ideas. Just work.

##The Usual Suspects

I’m a ball of nerves sometimes. Overthinking, hesitation, and second-guessing are all good friends of mine. I have a knot in my chest just writing this shit, because I know I have to follow through.

I can’t shout from a skyscraper “fuck you, fear!” and then have to be talked 
down from the ledge.

### Fear of Being a Fox Among Hounds

You can also call it impostor syndrome. I can’t actually say I have it—as the feeling of inadequacy runs contrary to great actual success—so I guess I just have the feelings of inadequacy. There are times I wonder what the hell I’m doing here. There are times I don’t think of myself as a real designer, a real developer, or even doubt how real I am as a person.

I have a habit of assuming that everything I know is common knowledge, so when I get the odd email thanking me for something I’ve written, I’m usually too scared to reply back. As if the second I hit send, the jig is up. So I don’t.

It’s the voice that shouts “holy shit, Paul Irish works on this, what the fuck am I doing sending a pull request?” when I’m on GitHub. It’s the voice that 
hisses “this isn’t ready” when I want to ship anything.

###Fear of Icarus

No, I’m not scared of running into his hellish half man, half bird spirit. I’m terrified of being him. I’m worried if I actually make the effort to soar that I’ll be just as quickly put back in my place by ultraviolet reality. It’s either the sun or the ocean with me. I’ll feel invincible one minute, and like flimsy tissue the next. I’m worried that I’ll be ripped apart by success rather than failure.

###Fear of Neverland

That was __not__ a Michael Jackson dig. I mean in the sense that I should feel like an adult, but I simply don’t. I’m 24, still chilling with my parents, and basically sitting on skills I could be using to build a real life for myself.

That’s not a self-criticism. Just the facts. At the same time, I don’t want the life we’re told to want. I don’t want the job that pays well but costs your soul. I don’t want the huge ass house with an equally huge mortgage. I don’t even really want to drive.

If anything, I’d prefer to be a well-dressed, curiously wealthy __vagabond__.

Visible markers of success have never been my motivation. Success, to me, is having the life I want.

## Right, Enough Shouting

The long and short of it is that I’m done blaming my circumstances and myself. Fear will always be there, scratching the chalkboard, but I won’t let that stop me from showing up to class. Maybe I don’t have anything __real__ to wake up for, like a steady job or a university, but I’ll make my own reason. I won’t sleep my days away. I’ll make my well-being a reason. I’ll make the work I want to do a reason. I’ll make a better life my reason.

And if anyone tells me I can’t have the kind of success I want, I will __take__ the success I want.
